# Plugins and Registration in CUBE
# Chapter 2 -- Users

## Abstract

This document is part two of the _Plugins and Registration in CUBE_ series. It introduces four users and their background. Each user wants to perform the same action:

* register a plugin to CUBE. 

## Introduction: Users and background

Let us now imagine four users for this thought experiment. We can hypothesize about their interactions with CUBE registration and make reasonable measurement against the **Ground Truth** measurement presented in Chapter 1. Let us assume that each user has two intents:


* registering a plugin to their local CUBE that is on `app.chrisproject.org`;
* registering a plugin to their local CUBE that they created themselves and exists in their local machine.

For the case of simplicity, we will not explore the "automatic upload via github actions" since this does not map nicely to our measurement table and is an extremely useful, but unusual (and arguably complex to setup) vector.

### Shared assumptions

All users are assumed to be engaged in some (neuro) research activity and have a need to use ChRIS to run some analysis. While some users will not create these plugins, others will.

### Jack

Jack is a Windows user, meaning little if any familiarity with the command line, and generally a _consumer_ of applications. Jack has heard of ChRIS and wants to explore it for his use cases running plugins to analyze data. He has a high tolerance for performing the same task multiple times.

## Mark

Mark is a Linux user, mostly using the UI, but with some familiarity of the CLI. Like Jack, Mark, mostly wants to run plugins. Mark will usually abandon a task, esp a CLI one, if it doesn't work.

## Jill

Jill is a developer who writes python code, typically in a UI like Visual Studio. Jill has heard of docker and containers but doesn't really know much about them. She can follow well written documentation, but finds it hard to adapt steps always for her specific use case. Like Mark, she will often abandon a CLI task if it doesn't work but has some tolerance for being educated about how to do it. Mostly she wants to just code and run analyses.

## Samantha

Samantha is a developer who mostly uses the CLI, and only uses Linux. She has very strong opinions about what distro to use. Samantha is familiar with docker (having containerized her own apps before). She can easily adapt general steps to her specific needs. She loves to tinker. Samantha arguably enjoys programming/developing tools more than running them and conducting research.

